This project was born out of another, hardware/microcontroller-based project. In that original project, I had to write C code that would test the legality of chess moves on a physical chess board between two human players. This was needed in order to automate the process of having to manually (and tediously) write down chess moves during a live game. Thus, there was no need to write software that actually plays chess.  Moreover, there was no need to write software that plays chess well (i.e. a chess engine).

However, after writing the necessary functions for detecting legal moves, I noticed that there was only a few more steps/functions that were needed to have the software actually play chess itself. I also noticed that if I did that, I would have a template from which I could begin to explore implementing my own AI. So needless to say, (and just for fun) I decided to go ahead and do exactly that. Thus I stripped away all the code pertaining to the microcontroller (e.g. hardware sensors for analog-to-digital conversion etc.), leaving only the fundamental legality functions to build upon. So that’s the basic background story behind the birth of this project/side-project.

As of the writing of this README (after the project’s first commit), most of the chess-playing capabilities needed for an AI are in place (except for pawn promotion). Notice that functions pertaining to check/check-mate aren’t too important from the stand point of the AI if we give the king a relative importance of infinity (relative to the other pieces). Thus I think I’ll go ahead and start implementing some basic AI after I write a function that handles pawn promotion (although I could change my mind about this later). 
